[01:42] Hello.
[01:45] You walk in.
[01:49] Give it a moment for people.
[01:54] Yes.
[01:57] Awesome.
[01:59] Thank you.
[02:03] Yeah, thanks to the team who cascaded it everywhere.
[02:07] It's timely.
[02:09] We have uh
[02:11] Been hearing it a lot. So it's a good uh
[02:15] Good message here.
[02:24] Carmen, are you on yet?
[02:26] Hello, yes I am. Can you guys hear me? Oh good. Yes.
[02:31] Yeah.
[02:32] He
[02:36] So do you figure you wanna go one more minute? Or get started, Walker.
[02:40] We can get started since we have a little bit of time. So um everyone how they spawn, Lord reached out.
[02:48] We've heard project.
[02:50] Classwing meet those IBM's response to that. We've seen that. We've been hearing it a lot from clients. I've had a number of you reach out on hey, how do we have this conversation intelligently and who do we bring in
[03:04] Um this is expanding on of that conversation, um, educating us all and how to have it and what it is and the right people to bring in. Laura, is that a fair
[03:14] Yeah.
[03:15] It is. Thank you.
[03:17] Thank you. And I'll introduce so um today one of our worldwide automation executives, Carmen Lung, is going to take us through this. Um she's responsible for IT automation and FinOps. And you know, if you think back to Think, two of the major significant announcements at Think were both under Carmen's purview. Um so as Walker said, she's gonna take us through it and um I will record it so you can listen to it again or we can continue to share it. Um so if you give me one second.
[03:48] Get that started.
[03:55] Now share
[04:03] Carmen, it's all yours.
[04:06] Thank you, Walker. Thank you, Laura. Um
[04:09] Honestly, thanks for having me on at um this um early on in the quarter, because I know a lot of you just finished um very busy to Q, so I appreciate you taking the time um to learn more about concert um and our response to me those today.
[04:26] Definitely a very timely and high priority topic with a lot of our clients right now. I think across my team and the PM leads, we've been having, quite frankly, over 200 conversations from end of April to now. A mix of in-person and virtual engagements with our clients. So definitely a very, very hot topic. And if you guys have seen Rop's blog, um, I think it was back in April, it definitely is an opportunity of a lifetime.
[04:59] I think it's really changed how clients have approached vulnerability management. Quite frankly, um, before Mythos it was never really a sexy topic. And we've had concert out in the market for what, a couple of years now. But really, we've seen kind of an overnight change um with our clients in terms of interest, in terms of priority, and it really has become a board level discussion and criticality um with a lot of our clients. So let's kind of dive right in. Hopefully, all of you on this call have heard of Mythos at this point. Um, so I won't dwell on the intro for too long. Um, but Laura, if you can quickly go to the next slide, please, so I can
[05:37] Level set.
[05:39] I will.
[05:41] I'm sorry, something's acting up with my
[05:45] Okay. Sharing. I can keep talking while you are reshare the screen. So Mythos at the most basic level, right? It's a frontier AI model that was developed by Anthropic.
[05:58] And like a lot of advanced LLMs, it's very capable at coding, at reason, at software engineering tasks, right? But what really sets Mythos apart is that it has proved to be extremely effective.
[06:13] and scarily exceptional at offensive cybersecurity reasoning. And over the last few months, Mythos has demonstrated the ability to
[06:23] discovered thousands and thousands of previously unknown or what we call zero day vulnerabilities across major
[06:31] software platforms and uh operating systems. And these are essentially flaws that nobody knew, meaning there are no patches, no mitigations
[06:41] um really no protections that are available yet. And as you can see at the bottom right hand corner, right, 99% of the vulnerabilities that Mythos has uncovered are currently unpatched.
[06:52] And one of the example um that was cited um on the left hand side, as you can see here, was a 27 year old vulnerability that had existed undetected all this time until Mythos surfaced it. So
[07:05] Not only is Mythos great at uncovering these zero day vulnerabilities, it can also reason across your entire software environment.
[07:15] Um
[07:16] And so that means it's reasoning across your applications, your APIs, your infrastructures, and then it can chain multiple weaknesses together into a complete attack.
[07:28] meaning in the past, right? Like a few vulnerabilities in isolation, they were in lower risk, um, and people tend to ignore them. Um, but Mythos has this ability to chain these lower risk um vulnerabilities together, link them together to form a full weapon path.
[07:47] And that results in things like a full system compromise, for example.
[07:51] So essentially what the world has now is the best hacker that they have ever seen. And it's not human. So it can do these offensive cybersecurity tasks continuously at machine speed and at scale. Um, and I think that is why the whole world has been panicking over the last couple of months over mythos and the likes of it rolling out.
[08:11] Now going over to the next slide, please.
[08:14] I think at this point, perhaps it's a little bit of a data topic because the rate and pace of um how quickly these things are changing on this topic is really just unprecedented. But I'll quickly cover it in case you have clients still asking you guys about Project Glasswing and IBM's involvement in it.
[08:31] So, because of how powerful and dangerous Mythos was considered, instead of releasing it publicly immediately, Anthropic launched Project Glasswing back in April, and it was a very tightly controlled initiative that provided very restricted access only to a select group of major tech firms, financial institutions, and critical infrastructure operators. And the goal was essentially to give
[08:58] the good guys a bit of a head start um in this essentially cybersecurity race, right? To kind of identify and remediate as many vulnerabilities as possible before inevitably the bad guys gain similar access and capabilities. And as most of you are probably aware, we officially and publicly joined Project Glass Wing um and joined that small coalition of institutions back in May. But to be very frank, we actually were already getting exclusive access of mythos from Anthropic well before this press release came out. So we've been having access of mythos for a long while now
[09:36] And um, as many of you probably know as well, since then many more organizations were given time bound early access to mythos as well. So I feel like Project Glasswing perhaps isn't as popular or relevant a topic anymore.
[09:51] Um but as a quick side note.
[09:53] Um an article that came out and I got asked about this a little bit was that in mid-June the US government did intervene in the roll out of Mythos V.
[10:02] Um, and another related model model Fable Five. Um, and unlike, you know, the previous, I guess, AI policy, this wasn't, you know, a voluntary pause by Anthropic like Glasswing. It was a government action um based on national security concerns, um, because Anthropic couldn't easily distinguish between US and foreign users. Um, um, the government required them to temporarily shut off access. Um
[10:27] Before um kind of letting the public to access it again. It was a very short restriction. I think it was just a couple of days in mid-June. Um since then, the restrictions have been lifted, but while the restrictions have been lifted, the most capable Mythos model is still only available to um approved um US organizations rather than being open to everyone.
[10:51] Now moving over to the next slide.
[11:00] Par minute stuck.
[11:02] Oh I'm sorry.
[11:03] That's okay. Um I'll talk through it. Okay, I can see it now. So the software vulnerabilities and exposure problem, it's not a new issue, right? For organizations. Even well before mythos, this has been a growing problem. And that's what this chart is showing you here. Um the number of new CVEs or common vulnerabilities and exposures, that's what it stands for, had already increased by 668% over the last decade from 2016 to 2026. And the longstanding risks of CVEs from you know ransom attacks to extortions to remote code execution, none of this is new. And so what this is saying is look, already before mythos, pre-mythos, over half of the organizations, as you can see here, are saying that they're not handling vulnerability management very well. That there's some kind of manual fragmented process involved. But again, it wasn't a very sexy topic. They're like, yeah, we know we're not doing the best job at it, but it doesn't really bother us. It's not that pressing of a topic. And as we all know, that kind of change overnight, right? Now going over to the next slide very quickly.
[12:13] What was on the previous chart and circled on the left hand side is now being represented on the right hand side in the circle. And essentially what we're seeing here is an absolute explosion of newly identified vulnerabilities that is just gonna keep growing and growing over the next months and years. Um
[12:30] Over just the last couple of months since Mythos um preview came out, a lot of the clients are saying that, hey, like, you know, it's already found thousands and thousands of vulnerabilities, and it's essentially become a board level priority overnight. And they are being asked by the board, by senior leaders, what exactly is our organization's level of readiness for this? Like, how are we preparing for the mythos and the likes of it to come? And the shared sentiment among most of the clients that we've talked to is that they are completely unprepared for something like this.
[13:03] Now going over to the next slide.
[13:05] So why are most of our clients not ready?
[13:09] Historically discovering, you know, zero days and kind of building complex exploit chains require very, very elite human attackers. They need to have enormous expertise and they need to spend significant amounts of time to kind of identify and chain those weaknesses that we just talked about together and form that weaponization path, right? And what Mythos demonstrated is that AI can do a lot of this automatically and at extraordinary scale.
[13:36] So going over to the next slide.
[13:40] So why exactly are most enterprises not prepared for mythos, right? And it's not just mythos, again, like mythos has simply proved that AI can now scan for vulnerabilities and it's creating more vulnerabilities. As we've seen, a lot of other companies have started rolling out similar models that claim to have very similar capabilities to mythos. So tomorrow it can be, you know, something else. It can be CHAGPT 5.5, it can be some Chinese AI models that take over. We don't really know. And that's what's causing everybody to panic. But why exactly are our clients not ready? And it really has to do with how they have been approaching vulnerabilities and vulnerability management over the last few decades.
[14:22] Um, and that's one thing to kind of really take away from today's presentation is that it's not just about a tooling gap here, but it's really about changing their operational model in terms of how they're dealing with vulnerabilities.
[14:35] So it's typically with vulnerability management, historically, what happens is look, an uh organization would have multiple scanners, and they would, you know, go through the entire IT state, scan for exposures and vulnerabilities. And then perhaps some of the more advanced scanners and tools could even do a little bit of correlation, a little bit of prioritization of the vulnerabilities. But there's always a lot of manual processes involved in terms of creating tickets, scheduling remediation windows, building the patches, and then applying the patches over time.
[15:07] And typically the vulnerabilities that get addressed are only the critical or high vulnerabilities. So essentially the exposures that get categorized as the most kind of dangerous ones, right? And most enterprises will have
[15:20] hundreds and thousands of vulnerabilities, and most of them don't get fixed because they don't get categorized as a critical or high. And quite frankly, that volume alone is just impossible to tackle. So all of the lower risk ones or perceived as lower risk ones always almost always get ignored.
[15:38] Um and the cycle of response time for our clients typically span from weeks to months, right? Like so think about with your iPhone and app that you use, how often does your app push an update?
[15:48] Typically like maybe you get it once a month, sometimes once multiple months, right? So it really is the in industry average or standard that, you know, it span from weeks to months before they
[15:59] push out a new version or a new update and say, hey, we we fix some buffs, please apply this patch, right? So what's going on right now is changing a lot of these organizations' operational models because they are now getting requirements from their senior leadership, from their organizations to say, hey, our internal mandates are now updating our SLAs from weeks and months to hours or within a day. That's a huge jump.
[16:25] Think about the millions of new vulnerabilities that are being discovered by mythos and the likes of it.
[16:31] and no organization is prepared for this kind of volume.
[16:34] And that's exactly what concert is going to address.
[16:37] So now go over to the next slide, please.
[16:44] Let me go.
[16:45] Yeah, one more, please.
[16:47] So Consert does three key things, if I were to kind of summarize it, um, in terms of how do we respond to mythos. First of all, it gives you a view of risks throughout your entire IT state.
[17:00] So that's kind of like the first thing that most enterprises try to solve, right? Like they got a lot of teams, they're often disjointed, they're using different scanners, different tools. Concert brings all of that together into a single understanding of exposure across the entire estate. The second thing that it does is prioritization or what we call triage, right? You cannot fix everything. We just talked about kind of like the millions of vulnerabilities to come. And I've had sellers ask, well, since the AI is so good these days, can't a client just use like a clot or fable five and fix everything? Why would they need us? Why would they need concert? That's a good question, but
[17:37] even with the use of AI is just
[17:39] improbable for you to fix it all. We've actually talked to a client who tried to use and they looked into trying to use Claude to fix the 400,000 vulnerabilities that they have. And the projected bill they shared with us was$35 million a month.
[17:56] That's that's per month billing.
[17:59] That's not something that an enterprise can contain in terms of cost. I don't think anybody would be able to afford that. And quite frankly, if they can, they certainly don't want to drop 35 mil a month to take care of that. So the idea of triage here really becomes very essential, and everyone should be able to articulate this to our client, right? And in one of our early testing, since we have access to mythos, we found that only 10% of what Mythos discovered, and it discovered hundreds and thousands of vulnerabilities in total, needed to be actioned upon.
[18:31] There were a lot of false positives, and that's what a lot of clients are going to find. A lot of false positives, there are a lot of vulnerabilities that weren't exposed on a network somewhere. So that triage step really becomes very essential here to kind of filter out a bunch of unnecessary stuff. So you focus on what matters. Now the third and last step is concert can automate your responses a couple of different ways. We automate responses by fixing vulnerabilities in code before they become problems in production, and I'll get into that in just a minute, as well as automatically patching things that are already in production in your systems. So those are kind of the three main takeaways that everybody should be able to articulate and communicate to your client when we talk about concert.
[19:13] Going over to the next slide, please.
[19:18] So the biggest differentiator is really with concert is really tied to the scariest thing about mythos that we just talked about, right? Like as I mentioned at the very beginning, it's not just the volume of the new vulnerabilities as a concern, right? But it's the fact that it can chain these lower priorities exposures together and form that full weaponization path. That's the scariest thing. It means that that old methodology of only fixing critical and high vulnerabilities is no longer relevant, right? Because now clients are going to have to understand, hey, even if it's a low uh low priority vulnerability, we can't just dismiss it automatically. We have to understand, hey, how is it going to be affecting my system? Is it exploitable? And that's exactly what concert does here. And that is one of our biggest differentiators. So concert has the ability to map out what we call the blast radius and attack path based on even the low critical um vulnerabilities. So concert will tell you if those vulnerabilities are exploitable, it's a personalized answer to your specific IT estate. It does all of that analysis and it's intelligent enough to tell you whether that vulnerability can be taken advantage of. And this is based on some um research assets that's been developed by our research team. So this is kind of like our secret sauce that you can think about here that will be coming into the newest version of concert, and that's on track to release next week on the 14th of July.
[20:44] And what you're seeing here is kind of like the modern flow or approach um to vulnerability with concert. Um
[20:53] So concert takes everything again into context. We take all the data, feed it into an AI model. And again, rather than feeding something like a hundred vulnerabilities through Claude and telling it to fix them all, we're being very specific and therefore again reducing that cost dramatically, right? And concert can now leverage AI to not only generate a patch to fix a system, but it can do integration tests, it can do unit tests to make sure everything is working, push it to production, and then report back. And it also does this continuous post-patch testing and performance analysis as well, tracking for drift. So there's a long term aspect to the concert solution as well. And it really is a pretty comprehensive end to end, as you can see here, life cycle of proactive and modern vulnerability management. I'm not going to get into everything on the chart here, but I think the takeaway here is that this is a very rich comprehensive set of capabilities, and we can now automate this flow and process. And just to kind of give you guys a little bit more perspective, when we use mythos internally, I'm not going to say which product team, but when we use Mythos very early on, and Mythos provided a scan output of 400,000 vulnerabilities on that product, we had one product team within IBM, without using concert, spend a whole week to go through and review all of those vulnerabilities. And then in parallel, we had a separate team on the same product team leverage concert. And uh, if I hadn't mentioned that before, concert can absolutely leverage Mythos output, just like we can with other scanners and sources that feed into concert. Mythos can feed into concert as well. So we had another team use concert, and they did that same triage of the 400,000 vulnerabilities. So team A spent one week doing the review.
[22:39] Concert was able to do the triage in under two minutes.
[22:44] One week versus two minutes. That's the kind of automation that we're now bringing to the table. Like I want everybody to remember this is something that we already did when we had access with um Mythos. And the savings, as you can imagine, it's enormous. And that's why we are very, very excited about this.
[23:01] Going over to the next slide.
[23:08] I think we can kind of skip some of these. Let me just um I'll tell you when to stop, but
[23:14] Let's jump ahead a couple of slides, please, Laura.
[23:18] Since we're running a little short on time. Okay, let's pause here.
[23:22] Okay.
[23:23] So um this one is um
[23:27] pretty important because we're demonstrating that concert protect uh provides protection across the entire SDLC. So on the left you can see kind of like the outcomes that the teams care about, faster development and feedback, right? And then on the right, um the loop shows how concert makes it repeatable. Um so
[23:46] Just kind of going through, um, I'm trying to figure out what I should focus on here. Maybe on the secure coder side. So I'll very quickly talk about um
[23:56] what secure coder is in just a second. So it's important to understand it's not just the triage step that I mentioned with concert that's important, but also again our ability to automatically respond after the triage step as well.
[24:10] And so again, Concer responds on both the shift left side with developers and the shift right side with applications and code in production. And we introduce these two key features. One is secure coder, and then one is remediation agent, almost as soon as Mythos was announced. So secure coder, it is a plug in to your developer's IDE. So we can plug it into your VS Code or cursor, if you're using Bob, even into Bob, and Concer provides the scan data and vulnerability detection directly into your code and tell you how to rewrite it, essentially to be more secure. So that's kind of our preventative side to prevent vulnerabilities from happening from the get go. And then on the right hand side, we now also have the ability through the remediation agent to remediate and patch systems automatically. So in this remediation agent, it generates a full patch. So all the way through
[25:05] Pull requests of upgrading packages, updating OS, middleware, and I have a slide in the deck to kind of show you all the things we can now automate. But we can confidently now automate about 90% of a client's vulnerabilities across their entire SDLC. So very powerful stuff. And as you can see here, we've built integrations with Vault. We've also built integrations with Terraform and Packer as well. And there really is no solution out there that is as comprehensive and as holistic as concert.
[25:38] And especially given how these AI models are advancing today, that comprehensiveness is very much needed. And I'll give you guys an example. We've been having, again, a lot of client meetings, and one of our lead PMs met with a bank in Europe, I can't say which bank yet, but they told us that their local government is very quickly rolling out mandates and regulations because it's a bank.
[26:05] Requiring them to not only have a plan, but to actually start implementing starting the summer, a very robust response to mythos. And they told us based on their evaluation and discussions with multiple vendors to date, IBM by far has the most comprehensive response that they're looking for. So I just wanted to kind of share with you guys some of the feedback that we've been getting in real time from some of our clients.
[26:30] Quickly going over to the next slide, please.
[26:35] Okay, this is kind of a summary of um what concert can do. As I talked about, it maps the entire IT state, um, and we get an understanding um so that we can provide very personalized recommendations, triage, scoring.
[26:49] And then after that, concert does deduplication, right? So not all of the findings necessarily mean that you have all those vulnerabilities. A lot of times we find ourselves deduplicating for, for example, 62,000 findings into just a few hundred unique vulnerabilities. And then another thing to note is we also have our own risk score that is not based on open source criticality, but it is based on a very personalized and specific understanding of the client's environment. And then last but not least, as I talked about, we have that remediation to kind of go through a whole remediation workflow.
[27:26] And an important thing to note here is that a customer isn't just going to be concerned about the number of vulnerabilities that concert can fix. They will also be worried about how exactly is this going to affect them in production, right? As you guys likely know, an upgrade can be very disruptive. It can cause outages. And concert actually takes that into consideration as well. We would analyze different upgrade paths and give you a recommendation to say, hey, while for let's say version 4.06 is a most, you know, latest release, actually upgrading to version 2.7, for example, would give you minimal breaks, but still fix your current security issues. So we would have that kind of granularity in our analysis. All of that intelligence is built under the covers and it gives our clients not just a more personalized response, but also very accurate and actionable way to fix their vulnerabilities. And that's what you're getting through concert. And then since I only have like three minutes left, I want to very quickly on the other hot topic of light well.
[28:30] Um let's go over to the next slide. We can skip ahead. Yeah.
[28:39] Let's pause here. So what exactly is Lightwell? Lightwell, as you guys have seen, it's a$5 billion initiative by IDM and Red Hat, where we're saying that we are majorly investing in creating a clearinghouse to vet and backport open source vulnerabilities into hardened secure images that clients can go use directly. What that actually means is that Lightwell is going to provide fixes for vulnerabilities in active production environments without forcing the users to upgrade to a newer version, right? Like we just talked about. Instead of asking a client to update from version two to three, which is disruptive and can require an outage, enterprises can stay on version two and still receive a fix, and they light well will deliver a fix for zero day vulnerabilities. And if a fix is not available, they will disclose it back to the open source. So an important thing to note here, because I know a lot of the Red Hat sellers have been going into a lot of accounts and basically saying, hey, either Lightwell or a combination of lightwell and Ansible can do what concert does, and you don't need concert. While we can control what they say, the truth objectively is lightwell and concert are complimentary and not competitive.
[29:55] Lightwell competes with offerings like Chain Guard that provide secure and hardened builds, but it does not compete with concert. And if you go and over to the next slide where it shows um Rob's blog,
[30:10] Mm.
[30:11] I don't know, maybe your screen was stuck again, but I included in the deck a slide where Rob
[30:16] mentioned um that there's an FAQ linked um to his announcement and in that FAQ it literally talks about how Lightwell will be using concert.
[30:26] So Lightwall is gonna be using many tools, quite frankly, if we're being very honest here.
[30:31] Lightwell is very little beyond slideware, markite slides, and PR today. Like it's still getting built. And when it does get built, it will be a service. It is not a vulnerability management solution like Concert. And Lightwell will be using many other tools of which concert will be used to help perform that high volume AI assisted vulnerability review, triage prioritization, and remediation.
[30:56] So I want to make sure that at least this team is clear in terms of light well versus concert. And we are also well aware in terms of some of the behavior that we've been seeing from our Red Hat sellers. To that end, we have been working with the Red Hat leadership team, whereby we are putting out a joint block to talk about how exactly Lightwell and Concert are working together and complement each other as opposed to against each other. And that block is currently being finalized, and we are trying to get this published by end of next week.
[31:29] So just a quick FYI for the team here, and hopefully that will help provide some clarification on this particular topic.
[31:37] I know I am at time.
[31:39] Um, we likely need to do another part two, but hopefully at a high level that helps address some of the questions. Um
[31:46] that you guys may have on the topic of Mythos concert and Lightwell.
[31:52] I'll pause here.
[31:53] And maybe hand it back over to you, Walker.
[31:56] Thanks, Carmen. So team uh went to a Gardner event uh even last week and essentially
[32:02] The Gardner stood up there in front of every CIO and told them they need a remedy plan.
[32:06] to bring their systems back online for when something in these vulnerabilities happen.
[32:11] Um and they need to be able to do it and tell the C suite um they can do this within
[32:17] X amount of days for this much money. Um and i everyone in the room is is kinda whirling and spewing and asking questions and
[32:26] It it's a it's a very relevant.
[32:30] Very good topic to bring up and to find something to go solve and be um valuable for your customer. We'll follow up.
[32:37] With some documentation, some different things. I see some questions in here will uh will help to answer those. So thanks, Carmen, thanks Laura for setting it up. And team please uh please engage us.
[32:47] Thank you.
[32:48] Awesome. Thanks for having me again. Happy to do a part two. Thank you.